A Welcome Back in this video we're going to dive into a built in module for testing called unit test.
Out of all the things that I've shown you in this section unit test is by far the most popular.
And in my opinion the easiest to use it has a bunch of powerful features for testing that things like
duct tests just don't have.
But before we even dive into that let's talk about unit testing.
So unit testing is a concept external It's outside of Python or the unit test framework.
Unit testing is simply the idea of when you're testing your application you test really small individual
components small pieces which you would call units things like an individual class.
You test the entire class.
You test a module you test a function.
Your focus is on these small units rather than you know testing an entire application in one go or testing
multiple interactions between classes in one go.
You focus on having full coverage of the smaller units that make up the larger application.
So unit test is a testing framework which means that yes we have to forego a little bit of flexibility.
We have to abide by the rules.
The scaffolding that unit test forces us to live in.
But if we do that we get a lot of powerful features for free out of the box and there's very good documentation
on it.
There's basic examples there's talks about the command line interface to run the tests but then the
bulk of what we're going to talk about are these assertions right here.
So it comes with a bunch of these built in assertions that we can run that do things like test if something
is true or two things are not equal or something is not in a set or in a list or is not None.
So we'll come back to this.
But this is kind of the value that we get rather than having to write just assert we get all these fancier
assertions.
Not to mention the fact that we also run all the tests together.
We get nice output.
Sort of like we get with a duck test.
OK.
So run through this ballpoints quickly built in module called unit test.
We write unit tests encapsulated as classes that inherit from UNIT TEST TEST CASE.
So you write your own classes that inherit from that test case class and that gives us a bunch of these
assertions and we write a bunch of tests that use those assertions to test the behavior of our code.
And then finally at the end we run the tests by calling the main method unit tests main and then that
sets the test going.
So let's say that I want to write functions to describe some classic great activities eating and napping.
Let's take a TDD approach and write some tests for these functions before implementing the functions
themselves and to do this we have to get set up with the unit test module first.
So we might have these two functions defined in a file called activity stop the Y and we just put past
inside of them.
They don't do anything at all but then to set up unit test in another file I'll call test or call it
test IPY.
This is what we need to do.
So we import unit test.
Then we need to import the functionality we want to test.
So I'm going to do it as from activities the name of the file import eat and nap and then we have class
whatever we want this to be called and it has to inherit from test case unit test test case.
And for now I will leave it blank.
So I'll get this file set up.
Fast forward.
OK.
So I have activity stop why and then test p why and what I have going on.
The only thing I didn't mention in the slide is at the bottom I have this bit of code unit test stop
main that's going to execute.
It's going to run our tests.
There are no tests defined right now but in a moment there will be.
So all you have to do is run this test IPY file and it should run all the tests because of this little
bit of code we have here.
As we saw it in the modules section.
So let's begin by writing a couple of tests.
Let's focus on the eat function.
We're going TDD style.
So we write the intended tests how we want it to work first and they should fail.
So we define a test in here we can come up with a name for a function.
So let's go test and then we can call it test eat and I'll show you in just a moment how we can organize
this.
So Def test eat and then it's an instance method so we need self and we'll do a self-taught.
And then there's all these assertions so we can do assert equal.
And here in the documentation we can see going back to these assertions assert equal.
We just pass in two values and it checks if they're equal and if they are then the test passes.
If they're not the test fails and then what are the two things we want to equal.
Well when we call it which we have up here when we execute it with let's say broccoli and the way I
want it to work is we also are going to pass in a keyword argument called is healthy but if we set is
healthy to be true then it should return to me when I do this on separate lines because it's getting
quite long to do this here OK so eat broccoli is healthy is true.
This is the behavior I guess I didn't really tell you ahead of time.
So this might be out of out of the blue but this is the idea with TDD you define the behavior that you
want.
How it should work.
So this should return to me.
I'm eating broccoli.
And then let's say because it's a healthy thing because my body is a temple.
All right.
So that's because is healthy is true.
And let's do another one down here except this time I pass in a pizza is healthy is now false.
And then it's going to say I'm eating pizza because and let's say because yolo you only live once.
I think you're a bit late for using YOLO but let's leave it at that.
So our behavior that we intend it doesn't matter what you pass in is healthy is the important part.
If it's not true then it should print out I'm eating the food because my body is a temple.
If it's up to false I'm eating the food because you only live once.
So we have these two assertions now.
And of course are not going to pass.
Let's just try running the tests right now.
All you have to do is execute tests.
Why.
And here we go.
So you can see what happened.
We get one test.
So it counted that one function as one test.
And so it countered one failure.
None was not equal to I'm eating broccoli because my body is a temple.
That's what we expect.
But my point that I want to hit home here is that you can have multiple assertions in a row like this
but these are testing different things.
This is testing eat when we pass in healthy.
This is testing eat when we pass in is healthy is false.
So what I would do instead is called Test eat healthy.
Now would be one function and then I would also have def test eat unhealthy.
These are testing different things.
And now if I run both of them I now get ran two Tests and there were two failures.
OK and before we move on.
That's right.
Two more tests for nap so I'll fast forward through these.
OK.
So I did two more tests.
This is for our nap function.
So I have test a short nap if we call nap and I pass in one that's the number of hours that I get I'm
feeling refreshed after my one hour nap.
And if I pass in three in this calling this death test long nap test short nap it gives me ugh I overslept.
I didn't mean to nap for three hours.
That's the worst thing that happens except honestly I never feel refreshed no matter how long or short
my nap is.
I'm always just really annoyed to wake up again.
OK.
So these should all fail and they do.
Now we have the task of actually implementing them back in the activities file.
Let's start working with eat.
So eat has food and is healthy.
The way I want to go about this is set a variable let's call it ending and ending.
Just start as so we have two endings.
Right we have.
Because yolo.
And because my body is a temple so I'll just do because yolo first the default value is going to be
because yolo.
And then at the end what I'm going to do is print a return an F string and I'll do something like HAIM
eating.
And then food coma and then the ending.
So he need space there and then just right ending.
So this should work for one of the tests already.
Because ending a set too because yolo.
Assuming that I'm matching this exactly.
I'm eating food comma space because yolo.
Exclamation point.
So if I actually read this right now I should only have three failures now get one of them is working.
So now it's up to this so that it checks if food is healthy.
So just to if it's healthy we're going to set ending to now equal this right here.
As a string and if we test it so sweet only two failures can satisfy this is why some people like TDD.
Now let's work on nap so nap has a numb hours that's passed in Andrle just check.
I think our threshold will be if ours has more than two.
Like I said all naps make me grouchy So this is not lifelike but if it's greater than two will return
the string and string may copy it over here so you can see how this works so both.
Unit testing with her using unit tests.
Excuse me but also TDD in general we are defining.
We're outlining the functionality what we want to work first.
So when we actually implement it we don't have to make many decisions.
OK.
Ugh.
I overslept.
I didn't mean to nap for.
And then here.
Do you want to put what we call its numb hours and execute this now.
One failure the one that's failing is when we try and take a one hour nap.
We need to fix that.
So if ours is greater than two.
Otherwise we just return.
And I'm going to copy this again.
I'm feeling refreshed after my one hour nap technically because this is greater than two.
Let's make this greater than or equal to two.
And then this will just always be one hour.
So we could just leave it at that and say well if we had a negative hour nap then we could do hours
anyways.
That's the focus of this.
I mean even string.
Let's see if it works.
Sweet.
They are all running.
Ran four tests.
Everything's OK.
It's kind of anti-climactic.
All we get is ok is our message but it's working.
We can also remedy this the fact that we're not getting much information by actually adding comments
to our tests.
Drum roll.
Here we go have a slide on it.
So if we add a docstring to our test functions like here's you know a dumb one testing thing.
Testing another thing will actually get more information in the terminal.
When our tests run and to run the tests we can use Dasch V when we run our files or Python.
The name of the test file test IPY in our case Dasch V which is for for boss I believe and actually
if we run that right now I just add that dash B what we get is the name of each test function.
So it says test eat healthy ok test eat unhealthy OK rather than what we got before.
Which is just OK.
So still not ideal but it works like we can see what tests are actually running.
But let's add comments.
So go to our tests and let's start with Eat healthy do our triple double string.
I hate typing that.
And we just want to say something like eat should have a positive message for healthy eating.
And then let's copy that for unhealthy and say eat should have what kind of message is that it should
indicate you've given up for unhealthy eating.
OK.
I'll add two more.
Fast forward through it.
So I added a short nap should be refreshing for tests short nap and then long naps should be discouraging
for test long nap.
All right.
So often just the name of this isn't enough you want to have a description of how things should work.
And if I run this on it's own.
Nothing changes I add the dash.
We go.
Should have a positive Methot positive message for eating healthy.
OK you should indicate you've given up for eating unhealthy.
OK.
And so on.
All right.
So I'll leave this video off here in the next video.
I'm going to focus on some other assertions that we can work with.